

- Private
- Bridge for any cryoto to crypto; No need for wrapping??
- Run privacy preserving applications.
- It has its own VM not EVM. This VM is a Linux container, so does not have op-code counting restrictions of EVM.
- REN allows C/C++ smart contract. That may not be a good idea. 
   - But recall, Solidity helps in restricting the language to a limited set and thus the on-chain data burden.
- Architecturally it has: 
  1. A zk Tx layer (Bina!)
  2. A zk exchange for secret swaps between blockchains (Bina!)
  3. A dark (liquidity) pool layer, that matches orders and executes them in privacy (Bina!)

- REN says it will introduce development tools to develop "privacy preserving applications), but are they there yet?
- BFT is the underlying mechanism -that allows/accounts for 1/3 failures/malicous nodes.
- ECSDA is used cryptography: Key pair is generated by the Transcoder/gateway
- **Only UTXO blockchains are permitted in the RenBridge source**
- OTC trading - privacy preserving
- Republic protocol: OTC trading as well as interoperable (fund) transfer between chains
- zkCompute is not zkProof: It is simply encrypting inputs, and outputs and the computation on the RenVM from the machine running the computation.
- They are using order matching not AMM for trade management/exchange between tokens.

      "Dark pools will be able to use the hidden order book that run on RenVM, leveraging its
      secret order matching engine, but still maintain control over any KYC/AML requirements
      that their traders and brokers must meet. Dark pools will also control the supported tokens,
      and the rules under which new tokens can be supported."  
              
              From their white/lite paper.

